Okay, so let's talk about a different kind
of graph that we can create, a line graph.
Okay, so
let's look at this data("airmiles"),
and then let's just briefly
talk about it quickly.
If I type in airmiles after
I've done data("airmiles"),
you see that it's a time series.
There's a collection of values,
and if I do time(airmiles),
it'll actually give me
the associated times.
In this case the time is years, okay?
Each data point corresponds to a year.
So now if I do plot_ly,
plot_ly's main plotting command,
x is the time variable, y is airmiles.
So we haven't given it a data frame,
we've just named two arguments x and y.
And the variables are in our environment,
so r knows where to find them.
Okay, then we do that plot,
we get this time series plot.
And then notice,
wherever my mouse is on the plot,
it's giving me the corresponding x and
y value.
And you've probably seen a plot
like this if you ever looked at
a market index like in the S&P 500 or
something like that.
They'll often have a plot like this where
they'll have the index value over time.
So why don't we actually
create a multi-line graph just
like that using some stock market data?
Okay, so
we already have plot_ly loaded up.
So we also, just for some data
manipulation, need tidyr and dplyr, and
I'll go through the commands
that we're using from them.
Okay, so there's the data EuStockMarkets.
So if I do Eu,
let me do head(EuStockMarkets).
Okay, so there's the German, Swiss,
French, and British market indices, okay?
So this is actually a time
series-type data set, so
we need to convert it to a data frame.
Okay, so this first command stocks
assignment as.data.frame(EuStockMarkets),
that's just going to convert our
data as it is now into a data frame.
Okay, then we're going to pass that into
this gather command, gather(index, price).
Let me just first show you what
this first command does, which,
this one doesn't do much.
So stocks, now if I do head(stocks),
where all I've done is converted it to
a data frame, now it's just
printing out as a data frame, okay?
Notice that if I did is.data.frame,
our original data,
even though it maybe looked a little
bit like a data frame, EuStockMarkets,
notice FALSE, it is not a data frame.
Okay, now when I go
through the two commands,
where I turn it into a data frame and
then I do the gather command,
let me show now what I've done,
that second manipulation has done.
Notice what it's done is,
it's taken it from
a short format and
converted it into a long format.
So there's a variable index, okay, and
that index was the column name of
the data points from before, okay?
So this is maybe a little bit less
convenient for display purposes way to
have the data, but it's how plot_ly wants
it in order to display multiple lines.
It wants it as one giant,
single data frame with the line,
the things that demarc the different
lines as a single factor variable, okay?
And then this final command is just
going to create our time variable,
okay, it's going to
create our time variable.
So if I do head(stocks) now,
there you go, you see time,
you see the time variable
having been recreated, okay?
So now when we do plot_ly,
we can do plot_ly of the stocks,
x is time, y is price, and
color is which index it is, okay?
Then we do it, we see that it's plotted
the four different index types here.
It's given you a little
key to each of the colors.
And it also does the interactivity where,
as your mouse hovers over a particular
point, it gives you the specific stock
market value, the index value at
that particular point in time.
Okay, so this is pretty similar
I would say to the stock market
graphs you just see a few Google for
any of these indices, for example,
just Google on the DAX and
you'll see exactly these kinds of plots.
So it's really a handy plot, and
as you can see it's quite useful.
And I can't also stress enough
the importance of using tidyr and
dplyr for
doing some of these manipulations.
Switching from short to long format
is a very common manipulation for
data, and tidyr makes that super easy.
And dplyr for working with
data frames is just essential.
Okay, so give it a try.
Maybe either use this data or try and
find some other stock market data to
create a multi-line stock market graph,
and try and put it out on a webpage.